# Action Creators
> An action creator, is a function that returns an action.

the `creators` is an object that you receive when you call `createActions`. This object contains action **creators**, that are used to create **Async Actions**.
Accordingly to the list/update example:

```js
const { creators } = createActions('myNamespace', {
  list: { url: 'todo', method: 'get' },
  update: { url: 'todo/:id', method: 'put' }
})
```

Your creators would look like this:

```js
  {
    list: function (options) {},
    update: function (options) {},
  }
```

You should use the action creators with the function dispatch, which you have normally have access inside the function [mapDispatchToProps](https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux/blob/master/docs/api.md). In that case, to start the list request, you would need to do the following:

```js
  dispatch(creators.list())
```

First, creators.list will return the following action:

```js
  {
    type: ['MY_NAMESPACE_LIST_REQUEST', 'MY_NAMESPACE_LIST_RESPONSE'],
    meta: {
      url: 'todo',
      method: 'get',
    },
  }
```

And then, the function dispatch, will dispatch it for redux flow.

The way we use creators.update is very similar. The two differences are:
 - We need to provide a param **id**, that will be used to parse the dynamic url.
 - We need to provide a **payload**, that will be the request's payload itself.

Take a look in the example below:

```js
  dispatch(creators.update(
    {
      description: 'Implement Arc in the project',
      date: '2017-10-03',
    },
    {
      id: '123',
    }
  ));
```

The creator above, generates the following action:

```js
  {
    type: ['MY_NAMESPACE_UPDATE_REQUEST', 'MY_NAMESPACE_UPDATE_RESPONSE'],
    meta: {
      url: 'todo/123',
      method: 'put',
      id: '123',
    },
    payload: {
      description: 'Implement Arc in the project',
      date: '2017-10-03',
    },
  }
```

> When the above action is dispatched, Arc's middleware intercepts it, parses the values and passes the options to asyncTask perform the request.

Notice that, those actions generated by Arc's creators, have an array containing two string instead of being only a simple string. Those kind of actions are **Async Actions**, by the Arc's point of view. That's how Arc's middleware identifies and intercepts them. Also, the first type is used in the action dispatched right before the request starts and the second is used to dispatch an action right after the request ends.

## Providing url as function
Arc also supports url as a function that expects params as its first argument and returns a string, as the following example:

```js
const { creators } = createActions('myNamespace', {
  read: { url: params => `todo/${params.id}`, method: 'get' }
})
```

